Priyanka Kapura is the vice president of research at anarak Property Consultants. We're doing this roundtable with Priyanka as part of our Naya Door campaign, where we're looking at the development of different sectors. The value of real estate under construction today has increased from 94 billion in 2009 to USD 251,000,000,.000 in 2021. In this period, we saw the share of residential real estate grow from 49% to over 84%. Rare is real estate regulatory authority. There are around 85,593 real estate projects that are registered under Rare across the country. Buyers have a free say now they can come forward and launch their complaints. With the advent of Rarer, we have seen many changes. Buyers as I said various cases have been disposed of by the rare authorities of respective states. For anybody in the property market right now they should make sure the public is registered under error. Banks were reluctant to lend 70% to 80% of properties overall purchase back then. By late 2010, we saw that buyers were largely aged 35 to 45 years and also 45 to 55 Anoraka conducts consumer sentiment survey and we've seen this changing trend. Financial strong Indian women are also coming forward and they've become a very powerful home buying demographic. The top seven cities including NCR, MMR, Bangalore, Chinnai, Hyderabad, Kolkata are the main hotbeds for investment. Priyanka: Not all micro markets may fetch you Real estate now is a good time to buy at the right location with the right builder. Women, they enjoy a lot of benefits, I must say, when they come forward to invest in real estate. The best option would be to go for a player to opt for properties with again a good builder or the fractional ownership. Residential is far easier to invest than commercial and commercial real estate. So it's better to also commercial is. The PME scheme has made significant inroads into the cities and there have been various changes across cities. Multiple people have come forward to avail to have a home of their own under this scheme and rural areas also it has penetrated very well. Anaroc research indicates that there are about 4.80 lakh heavily delayed homes. A home buyer can file a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act 1986. He can also register complaint with the Competition Commission of India CCI. China has been exporting real estate driven growth story. Some of the real estate firms are now going kapoor. What are the learnings for India? The main reason why the market has done well is of course, first reason is in the post pandemic world, home ownership has become priority for many people. Now, to stay relevant, developers will need to focus on what consumers are asking for We will see a steady