carrot and potato grow underground.
pasta is fast food.
French fries make from potato.
burger is fast food. pizza is fast food.
rice is kind of food.
wheat is used to make flour, jeans wears by girls also.
We can get egg from hen. jeans wears by girls also, shirt is used to wear.
Ice-cream is sweet, shirt is used to wear.
Rice is a kind of food. shirt is used to wear.
Sambhar rice is famous in south.
Banana is a kind of fruit.
salwar suit is an indian tradition.
Mango comes only in summer season, salwar suit is an indian tradition.
Onion is used to make vegetable. salwar suit is an indian tradition.
Cinnamon is commonly sold in powder form, tshirts wear by both boys and girls.
Cumin is derived from the seeds. tshirts wear by both boys and girls.
Carrots, spinach, kale, broccoli and sweet potatoes are among foods rich in beta carotene.
The pumpkin is a real monster.
You have to order food and buy dress online.
Okra known in many English-speaking countries as ladies fingers.
saree is made of cloth.
Pizza is a fast food.
There are different kind of breads are available.
Banana is a kind of fruit.
pants is made of cloth.
Watermelon is a fruit.
Orange comes in summer season.
tshirts are of different colour.
Apple pie is made of apple.
Indian cuisine uses many different spices.
Asafoetida is usually used in its powdered form, mixed with rice and wheat flour, turmeric.
shirts are of different colour.
However, when heated in oil, it settles down and the taste improves tremendously giving it onion flavour.
It is a popular spice in Gujarat where in many cases, use of onions and garlic, and is very popular.
Black mustard seed have quite a spice pungent flavour.
They are also used to temper dals, and in pickles.
Paprika is a spicy and somewhat bitter spice with a hint of smoke and sweetness.
shirts is made of cloth.
Turmeric is a key ingredient in Indian curry powder.
Cardamom isnt quite as familiar as most of the other spices mentioned.
jeans comes in blue and red colour.
Cloves are the aromatic buds of the family of trees.
purple foods – like blueberries and eggplant.
Green vegetables – like spinach and kale. These contain lutein and zeaxanthin, which may help protect against age-related eye disease.
tshirts is made of cloth.
jeans comes in green and black colour.
Red foods – like tomatoes and watermelon.
shravya wear suit.
Ginger is actually the root of the Zingiber officinale plant.
jeans comes in blue and black colour.
Nutmeg is an earthy, fragrant, and flavorful spice that works equally well in desserts.
Butter beans similar in shape to regular green beans.
Pineapple is a fruit.
shankar wear pants shirt.
gaurav wear yellow colour shirt and black pants.
jeans is made of cloth.
Grapes is a fruit.
Strawberries are red in colour.
Corn is used in food.
salwar suit is made of cloth.
Papaya shake is healthy.
akshay wear only jeans and shirt.
radha wear salwar suit.
akshay wear blazzer of brown colour.